README.md, before:

## VimFootnotes for Markdown

This fork derived from [this vim-plugin by David Sanson][1], which in turn is
a slight tweak of the venerable [vimfootnotes][2], for use with extended
markdown.

The new script inserts footnotes in the widely supported extended markdown
syntax with the addition of `fn` as a prefix to the current footnote number.

~~~
Here is some text.[^fn1]

[^fn1]: Here is a note.
~~~

The footnote number gets determined by an automatic counter whenever a new
footnote gets inserted. The counter works with the default arabic numerals
and all other settings provided by `b:vimfootnotetype`. The automatic counter
code is based on the code for the counting of HTML footnotes in [this post by
Nick Coleman][3], adjusted slightly to work with Markdown footnotes.

The script defines two mappings,

```viml
<Leader>f " Insert a new footnote
<Leader>r " Return from footnote
```

To insert a footnote, type `<Leader>f`. A footnote mark will be inserted
after the cursor. A matching footnote mark will be inserted at the end
of the file. A new buffer will open in a split window at the bottom of
your screen, ready to edit the new footnote. When you are done, type
`<Leader>r` to close the split and return to the main text.

![Screenshot][5]

## Installation

Extract to your plugins directory or use any common vim plugin manager.

```viml
" vim-plug
Plug 'vim-pandoc/vim-markdownfootnotes'

" vundle
Plugin 'vim-pandoc/vim-markdownfootnotes'
```

```bash
# pathogen
$ cd ~/.vim/bundle
$ git clone https://github.com/vim-pandoc/vim-markdownfootnotes.git
```

```lua
-- packer
use("vim-pandoc/vim-markdownfootnotes")
```

## Settings

By default, footnote ids are arabic numerals. You can change this by
setting `b:vimfootnotetype`:

+	`arabic`: 1, 2, 3...
+	`alpha`:  a, b, c, aa, bb..., zz, a...
+   `Alpha`:  A, B, C, AA, BB..., ZZ, A...
+   `roman`:  i, ii, iii... (displayed properly up to 89)
+   `Roman`:  I, II, III...
+   `star`:   \*, \*\*, \*\*\*...

You can optionally disable line breaks before each footnote by setting `g:vimfootnotelinebreak = 0`.

## Commands

`AddVimFootnote`
 :  inserts footnotemark at cursor location, inserts footnotemark on new
    line at end of file, opens a split window all ready for you to enter in
    the footnote.

`ReturnFromFootnote`
 :  closes the split window and returns to the text in proper place.

These are mapped to `<Leader>f` and `<Leader>r` respectively.

`FootnoteNumber`
 :  Change the current footnote number (one obligatory argument)
    :FootnoteNumber 5

`FootnoteNumberRestore`
 :  Restore old footnote number

`FootnoteUndo`
 :  Decrease footnote counter by 1

`FootnoteMeta [<footnotetype>]`
 :  Change type of the footnotes and restart counter (1, a, A, i, I, *)

The `<footnotetype>` argument is optional. If omitted, and your previous
footnote type was not `arabic`, the new type will be `arabic`; if it was
arabic, the new type will be `alpha`. If the new type is the same as the
previous type, then the counter will not be restarted.


`FootnoteRestore`
  : Restore previous footnote type and counter.

[1]: https://github.com/vim-pandoc/vim-markdownfootnotes/
[2]: http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=431
[3]: http://www.nickcoleman.org/blog/index.cgi?post=footnotevim%21201102211201%21programming
[5]: https://raw.github.com/vim-pandoc/vim-markdownfootnotes/master/assets/footnotes.png

Commit message:

Added credit for Mr. Ipsum

README.md, after:

## VimFootnotes for Markdown

This fork derived from [this vim-plugin by David Sanson][1], which in turn is
a slight tweak of the venerable [vimfootnotes][2], for use with extended
markdown.

The new script inserts footnotes in the widely supported extended markdown
syntax with the addition of `fn` as a prefix to the current footnote number.

~~~
Here is some text.[^fn1]

[^fn1]: Here is a note.
~~~

The footnote number gets determined by an automatic counter whenever a new
footnote gets inserted. The counter works with the default arabic numerals
and all other settings provided by `b:vimfootnotetype`. The automatic counter
code is based on the code for the counting of HTML footnotes in [this post by
Nick Coleman][3], adjusted slightly to work with Markdown footnotes.

The script defines two mappings,

```viml
<Leader>f " Insert a new footnote
<Leader>r " Return from footnote
```

To insert a footnote, type `<Leader>f`. A footnote mark will be inserted
after the cursor. A matching footnote mark will be inserted at the end
of the file. A new buffer will open in a split window at the bottom of
your screen, ready to edit the new footnote. When you are done, type
`<Leader>r` to close the split and return to the main text.

![Screenshot][4]

Sample text produced by the awesome [Samuel L. Ipsum][5].


## Installation

Extract to your plugins directory or use any common vim plugin manager.

```viml
" vim-plug
Plug 'vim-pandoc/vim-markdownfootnotes'

" vundle
Plugin 'vim-pandoc/vim-markdownfootnotes'
```

```bash
# pathogen
$ cd ~/.vim/bundle
$ git clone https://github.com/vim-pandoc/vim-markdownfootnotes.git
```

```lua
-- packer
use("vim-pandoc/vim-markdownfootnotes")
```

## Settings

By default, footnote ids are arabic numerals. You can change this by
setting `b:vimfootnotetype`:

+	`arabic`: 1, 2, 3...
+	`alpha`:  a, b, c, aa, bb..., zz, a...
+   `Alpha`:  A, B, C, AA, BB..., ZZ, A...
+   `roman`:  i, ii, iii... (displayed properly up to 89)
+   `Roman`:  I, II, III...
+   `star`:   \*, \*\*, \*\*\*...

You can optionally disable line breaks before each footnote by setting `g:vimfootnotelinebreak = 0`.

## Commands

`AddVimFootnote`
 :  inserts footnotemark at cursor location, inserts footnotemark on new
    line at end of file, opens a split window all ready for you to enter in
    the footnote.

`ReturnFromFootnote`
 :  closes the split window and returns to the text in proper place.

These are mapped to `<Leader>f` and `<Leader>r` respectively.

`FootnoteNumber`
 :  Change the current footnote number (one obligatory argument)
    :FootnoteNumber 5

`FootnoteNumberRestore`
 :  Restore old footnote number

`FootnoteUndo`
 :  Decrease footnote counter by 1

`FootnoteMeta [<footnotetype>]`
 :  Change type of the footnotes and restart counter (1, a, A, i, I, *)

The `<footnotetype>` argument is optional. If omitted, and your previous
footnote type was not `arabic`, the new type will be `arabic`; if it was
arabic, the new type will be `alpha`. If the new type is the same as the
previous type, then the counter will not be restarted.


`FootnoteRestore`
  : Restore previous footnote type and counter.

[1]: https://github.com/vim-pandoc/vim-markdownfootnotes/
[2]: http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=431
[3]: http://www.nickcoleman.org/blog/index.cgi?post=footnotevim%21201102211201%21programming
[4]: https://raw.github.com/vim-pandoc/vim-markdownfootnotes/master/footnotes.png
[5]: https://github.com/tpope/vim-pathogen
[6]: http://slipsum.com/
